## Codebase Structure

- [`src`](src)
    - [`index.ts`](src/index.ts) is the entry point of the library.
    - [`tensor.ts`](src/tensor.ts) is the main tensor class.
    - [`operations`](operations) contains all operations that tensors can perform.
    - [`nn`](nn) contains all neural network modules (for everything under `torch.nn`).
    - [`optim`](optim) contains all optimizers (for everything under `torch.optim`).
    - [`creation`](creation) contains all tensor creation functions (all functions that create a tensor not from scratch, including `zeros`, `randn`).
- [`examples`](examples) contains example usages of the library, including on node, on the browser, and using pyodide on the browser.
- [`test`](test) contains the test cases of the library, including on node and on the browser. See [Testing](#testing).

## Development Notes

Files ending with `.ts.j2` are generated by jinja to `.gen.ts`, using [`scripts/generate.py`](scripts/generate.py).

Thus, Python is required to run [`scripts/generate.py`](scripts/generate.py),
which also requires `Jinja2` (see [`scripts/requirements.txt`](scripts/requirements.txt)).

Do not edit `.gen.ts` directly, instead edit the `.ts.j2` files.

### Development Scripts

You can use `yarn watch` to automatically test after each edit.

Note that it does not automatically regenerate `.gen.ts` files when editing `.ts.j2` files.
You will have to run `yarn generate` or `python3 scripts/generate.py`.

This is to allow for testing in `.gen.ts` files before moving the edits to `.ts.j2`.

### Adding a new Operation

To add a new operation, add it to [`src/operations/ops.ts.j2`](src/operations/ops.ts.j2).

You may see the macros at [`scripts/macros.ts.j2`](scripts/macros.ts.j2) and the output at [`src/operations/ops.gen.ts`](src/operations/ops.gen.ts) (you need to run `yarn generate` to regenerate it) to see how it works.

- To allow for `torch.<opname>(<tensor>, <args>)`, add it as well to [`src/operations/functional.ts`](src/operations/functional.ts).
- To allow for `<tensor>.<opname>(<args>)`, add it as well to [`src/tensor.ts`](src/tensor.ts) as a `tensor` method.

## Testing

Tests are run using `mocha`.

- Node: To test on node, run `yarn test`.
- Browser: To test on browser, run `yarn serve` (after `yarn build` if necessary) and navigate to http://localhost:8080/test/.

To create a new test:

1. Create a new `.test.js`/`.test.ts` file in [`test`](test) or write your new test in one of the existing files.
2. If you created a new file and would like to test it on the browser, add it to [`test/index.html`](test/index.html).

## Documentation

To see docs, run `yarn docs` to build, and run `yarn serve docs` to serve docs on http://localhost:8080/.

To ensure familiarity with PyTorch, docs should be derived from the PyTorch docs, as mentioned in [`NOTICE`](NOTICE).